README.md, before:

# PointCloud_fun, correlate ECoG activity to Leadfield matrix (LFM)

This repository contains scripts to correlate ECoG activity to Leadfield matrix (LFM) in order to estimate the spatial distribution of the ECoG activity as EEG activity. The hypothesis is that mapping ECoG activity to EEG will help us to understand the ground-truth dynamics of EEG data and help us determine the extent of the ECoG (and cortical) activity that can be captured by EEG.

## Workflow
Here is the general workflow of the scripts:

```mermaid
graph TD
    AA{{Start, get the LFM nodes from Headmodel}} --> A[delaunay3D_fit.py]
    A -->|delaunay3D_overCortex.ply| B[fit_patch.py \n select the nodes over the cortex that represents the ECoG]
    B -->|projected_patch.ply| C[closest_point_to_patch.py \n get the closest LFM nodes to the ECoG patches]
    C -->|point_to_patch_weight.pkl \n patch_centers.pkl| D[project_activity.py \n project the ECoG activity to the LFM nodes]
    
    D -->|point_activation.pkl| E{{End, use LFM transformation to get EEG activations}}
```

## Intermediate files
- delaunay3D_overCortex.ply: The Delaunay surface that fits the LFM nodes over the cortex.
- projected_patch.ply: The ECoG patche that is placed over the Delaunay surface.
- point_to_patch_weight.pkl: The weight of each ECoG sub-patch to the LFM nodes.
- patch_centers.pkl: The center of each ECoG sub-patch.
- point_activation.pkl: The ECoG activity projected to the LFM nodes.

Large files are not included in the repository. Before running the scripts, you need to download (at least) the FDT files of your choosing from this **[Repository Cloud Storage](https://ucsdcloud-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/r/personal/syshirazi_ucsd_edu/Documents/to%20Share/ECoG/pointcloud_fun%20files?csf=1&web=1&e=YELLDr)**.
The LeadField Matrix (LFM) that this pipeline originally used and should be used for estimating EEG is available from **[sample high-density LFM](https://ucsdcloud-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/syshirazi_ucsd_edu/EiVm3OZbdH9Epol6LykHvoABcZjdB0RVRc3ziXQnLpIyVA?e=UVFLQN)**.

Commit message:

Add paper detials, fix typos

README.md, after:

# PointCloud_fun, correlate ECoG activity to LeadField matrix (LFM)

This repository contains scripts to correlate ECoG activity to LFM in order to estimate the spatial distribution of the ECoG activity as EEG activity. The hypothesis is that mapping ECoG activity to EEG will help us to understand the ground-truth dynamics of EEG data and help us determine the extent of the ECoG (and cortical) activity that can be captured by EEG.

This work has been made possible by the high-density ECoG data collected by the **[UCSD Integrated Electronics and Bio-Interfaces Lab](http://iebl.ucsd.edu)**.
The data is available from **[DABI Data Repository](https://dabi.loni.usc.edu/),**.
The paper that describes the data and the experiments is available from **[the Science Tran. Med. Journal](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/scitranslmed.abj1441)**.

## Workflow
Here is the general workflow of the scripts:

```mermaid
graph TD
    AA{{Start, get the LFM nodes from Headmodel}} --> A[delaunay3D_fit.py]
    A -->|delaunay3D_overCortex.ply| B[fit_patch.py \n select the nodes over the cortex that represents the ECoG]
    B -->|projected_patch.ply| C[closest_point_to_patch.py \n get the closest LFM nodes to the ECoG patches]
    C -->|point_to_patch_weight.pkl \n patch_centers.pkl| D[project_activity.py \n project the ECoG activity to the LFM nodes]
    
    D -->|point_activation.pkl| E{{End, use LFM transformation to get EEG activations}}
```

## Intermediate files
- delaunay3D_overCortex.ply: The Delaunay surface that fits the LFM nodes over the cortex.
- projected_patch.ply: The ECoG patch that is placed over the Delaunay surface.
- point_to_patch_weight.pkl: The weight of each ECoG sub-patch to the LFM nodes.
- patch_centers.pkl: The center of each ECoG sub-patch.
- point_activation.pkl: The ECoG activity projected to the LFM nodes.

Large files are not included in the repository. Before running the scripts, you need to download (at least) the FDT files of your choosing from this **[Repository Cloud Storage](https://ucsdcloud-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/r/personal/syshirazi_ucsd_edu/Documents/to%20Share/ECoG/pointcloud_fun%20files?csf=1&web=1&e=YELLDr)**.
The LFM that this pipeline originally used and should be used for estimating EEG is available from **[sample high-density LFM](https://ucsdcloud-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/syshirazi_ucsd_edu/EiVm3OZbdH9Epol6LykHvoABcZjdB0RVRc3ziXQnLpIyVA?e=UVFLQN)**.
